Hourglass Magnetic Field of a Protostellar System \[2024\]

Wednesday, September 18, 2024

11:39 PM

 

Background

Wednesday, September 18, 2024

11:40 PM

 

Star-formation in general happens due to gravitational collapse of a
molecular cloud with magnetic fields acting against the collapse.

 

Both theoretically and recently now through observations hourglass
pattern were observed.

 

However, the hourglass pattern is a good approximation for the
prestellar phase when magnetic field is almost uniform and there is a
very toroidal component due to almost no rotation.

 

But protostellar phase brings its own complexities and the hour-glass
magnetic field shall be distorted. This shall happen because of the
rapid infall of material which creates strong rotational magnetic
energies.

 

Also the magnetic field is dissipated or lost due to ohmic dissipation
and ambipolar diffusion causing distortion from prestellar phases.

 

The paper covers a new semi-analytical model to study the magnetic
fields during protostellar phases.

 

Introduction

Wednesday, September 18, 2024

11:57 PM

 

So the literature discusses about a new axisymmetric semi-analytical
model that considers strong radial and toroidal magnetic field
components during protostellar phase.

 

Previously, there was only one analytical model around protostellar
cores, but the model applied to the moment where the protostar forms and
doesn't consider the effects of rotation, disk and outflows which
happens later after the formation.

 

There has been studies done to fit distributions to the polarimetry
observed data or simulations data [Magnetic Field vs Density Relation in
Star-Forming Clouds
\[2022\]](onenote:Molecular%20Clouds.one#Magnetic%20Field%20vs%20Density%20Relation%20in%20Star-Forming%20Clouds%20&section-id={32AB7555-9F4C-4A2A-B98C-C29636CCCBD3}&page-id={0DE5EE41-C19B-4F9D-84C5-883A0D9515D4}&end&base-path=https://uwoca-my.sharepoint.com/personal/rkhann43_uwo_ca/Documents/Notebooks/Literature%20Review).

 

But this paper presents a new approach of using an analytical method to
model Class 0 phase of protostars considering rotation, disk, outflows
and Non-ideal MHD.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Analytical Method

Thursday, September 19, 2024

12:03 AM

 

Assumptions:

 

- Assuming Current Density is separable.

 

- Magnetic field is Bo outside the core.

 

 

Inspiration:

 

Follow the paper: [Magnetic Field vs Density Relation in Star-Forming
Clouds
\[2022\]](onenote:Molecular%20Clouds.one#Magnetic%20Field%20vs%20Density%20Relation%20in%20Star-Forming%20Clouds%20&section-id={32AB7555-9F4C-4A2A-B98C-C29636CCCBD3}&page-id={0DE5EE41-C19B-4F9D-84C5-883A0D9515D4}&end&base-path=https://uwoca-my.sharepoint.com/personal/rkhann43_uwo_ca/Documents/Notebooks/Literature%20Review)
to get to know other boundary conditions and assumptions.

- In the Paper, different radial current density distributions were
  taken such as Gaussian, Power-Law and Bessel which all were centrally
  peaked.

- These were then used to get the value of coefficient in main solution
  and get values of magnetic field vector in z and r directions.

- However, these are good approximations for prestellar phase.

 

 

Modification:

 

For protostellar phase, we need radial current density distributions
that can result in off-center peaks as observed in simulations (probably
due to strong non-MHD affects at certain densities). We also need strong
radial and toroidal components due to rapid rotating infall.

 

<img src="media/image1.png" style="width:4.625in;height:0.50833in" />

 

 

 

Modeling

Thursday, September 19, 2024

12:27 AM

 

Modeling Approximations:

 

Here, we assume the field has two peaks r0 and r1.

 

Before the second peak, the density curve is gaussian (r \< r1).

 

After the second peak, the density curve goes down with the power-law
scale influence. (r\>r1)

 

As observed in Inspiration paper, a singly peaked gaussian curve results
in single peak in resulting poloidal variation. Here we get two peaks
current density in radial direction.

 

To get double peaks, A \< 0 and B \> 0. This is because there is more
flux dissipation near the core because of opposite rotations of currents
compared to outer flows.

 

The decrease in B after second peak is because of most material
infalling and preserving flux with the fall inwards.

 

The second peak is what we observe as the peak of the whole radial
current density distribution.

 

 

Modeling Toroidal Component:

 

It can be observed that the toroidal component is related to the radial
component during an infall.

 

This is because the region of rapid infall is the region of twisting of
field as well.

 

Hence, it is assumed that toroidal B is directly proportional to radial
B.

 

(However in simulations region of toroidal comp is bigger than that of
radial comp because of outflows twisting background magnetic fields)

 

Results

Thursday, September 19, 2024

12:33 AM

 

Discussions and Conclusion

Thursday, September 19, 2024

12:33 AM

 

Any Future Work?

Thursday, September 19, 2024

12:34 AM
